======================
PyNE 0.4 Release Notes
======================

PyNE 0.4 is the latest, greatest release of PyNE: The Nuclear Engineering Toolkit 
project after an additional six months of effort.  PyNE is a free and open source 
(BSD licensed) project whose goal is to become a necessary package in the computational 
nuclear engineer's toolkit.  It is meant to play nicely with existing, industry standard
nuclear engineering tools.  PyNE is meant to be both fast and useful.  

Release highlights:

  - Nuclear data updates, including full ENSDF support 
  - Python 3 support
  - R2S activation workflow
  - Tally class for Monte Carlo tallies
  - CADIS variance reduction implementation
  - Pydagmc integration 
  - Verification and validation workflow implemented
  - Style guide adoption
  - New tutorial
  - Removal of simplesim

This release represents over 976 commits, 325 files changed, 62846 insertions(+), 
22162 deletions(-) since the version v0.3 release.  Additionally, over 125 issues were 
closed on behalf of this release.

Please visit our website for more information: http://pyne.io/
Please contact us via our users mailing list 
(https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pyne-users or pyne-users@googlegroups.com) 
if you have any questions on how to use or install pyne.

Authors
=======
This release contains code written by the following people (in alphabetical 
order). An (*) indicates a first-time contributor to pyne.

* Cameron Bates*
* Elliott Biondo
* Carsten Brachem
* Robert Carlsen*
* Andrew Davis*
* Christopher Dembia
* Markus Elfring*
* Robert Flanagan
* Matthew Gidden
* Tim Haines*
* Joshua Howland*
* Blake Huff*
* Katy Huff
* Steve Jackson*
* Matthew Klebenow
* Kevin Manalo*
* Matt McCormick
* Arrielle Christine Opotowsky*
* Mohamad Rabbani
* Eric Relson
* Paul Romano
* Anthony Scopatz
* Patrick Shriwise*
* Rachel Slaybaugh*
* py1sl*
* Paul Wilson
* John Xia
