**Added:**

* Function to convert unit to s in pyne/alara.py
* Function to do float match for decay times
* Add SourceParticle class in pyne/src/source_sampling.
* Codes to read ALARA output file under subvoxel R2S condition
* A function to build up a subvoxel_array from mesh and cell_mats information
* A test function to test the process of reading ALARA output file
* Test function for subvoxel with (N, 1) condition in test_mesh.py
* Reshape the array when max_num_cells == 1


**Changed:**

* shape of IMeshTag when input value is a (N, 1) array
* set tag as array rather than number
* decaygen now gets the include dir based on the compiler path.
* Build system now explitily looks for C++11 standard compatability.
* Unit of e_bounds changed from eV to MeV
* Change loop variables to be v for volume elements and e for energy groups (instead of i & j)
* Use bias_mode instead of mode to allow for additional mode types in future
* A parameter in test_alara.py, to test modified match method
* Correct the wrong mode description comment in pyne/src/source_sampling.h
* Change the particle_birth return value from std::vectot<double> to SourceParticle object
* Some code clean up
* Some clean up of white space


**Removed:**

* Code in mesh.py to reshpe a (N,1) to (N, ) array is no longer needed if PR #971 merged


**Fixed:**

* decaygen now can properly produce Clang assembly.
* Build system would always download cram sources, even if they already existed.
  This has been fixed.
* ENDF error bounds bug that was preventing ``nuc_data_make`` from working.
* NNDC no longer provides the ``mednew.dat`` data set. A fallback has been
  supplied.


