======================
PyNE 0.5 Release Notes
======================

Welcome to PyNE v0.5, the Nuclear Engineering Toolkit. This release is the 
culmination of ten months of effort by several individuals and teams, 
both new and prior contributors. PyNE is a free and open source 
(BSD licensed) project whose goal is to become a necessary package in the 
computational nuclear engineer's toolkit.  It is meant to play nicely with 
existing, industry standard nuclear engineering tools and to have unique 
capabilities of its own. PyNE is both fast and useful.  

Release highlights:

- AHOT intergration with a Python interface
- Decay solver using binary method
- More comprehensive inclusion of ENSDF data
- Source sampling, with Fortran interface
- MAGIC method for variance reduction
- Partisn support
- New particles tally class
- Single, all-inclusive libpyne.so for easy dynamic linking
- Dose factor and radiotoxicity data 
- Meshtal to h5m command line interface
- SWU and enrichment helper functions
- OpenMC cross section DataSource class
- OpenMC cross_section.xml parsing 
- OpenMC nuclide naming convention
- Origen v2.2 TAPE9 writing improvements
- Activity and decay heat Material methods
- Fluka Material support
- ENDF photon cross section support
- ENDF and ACE reader fixes and improvements
- Materials compendium fix
- Source amalgamation now includes JsonCpp
- Website redesign
- Moved from breathe to doxygen for C++ and Fortran docs
- Many build system improvements

This release represents over 1385 commits, 542 files changed, 
168647 insertions(+), 110838 deletions(-)
since the version v0.4 release.  Additionally, over 175 issues were 
closed on during this release.

Please visit our website for more information: http://pyne.io/
Please contact us via our users mailing list 
(https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pyne-users or pyne-users@googlegroups.com) 
if you have any questions on how to use or install pyne.

Authors
=======
This release contains code written by the following people (in alphabetical 
order). An (*) indicates a first-time contributor to pyne.

* Cameron Bates
* Elliott Biondo
* Carsten Brachem
* Robert Carlsen
* John Cary*
* Andrew Davis
* Christopher Dembia
* Markus Elfring
* Robert Flanagan
* Matthew Gidden
* Tim Haines
* Joshua Howland
* Blake Huff
* Katy Huff
* Steve Jackson
* Kalin Kiesling*
* Matthew Klebenow
* Moritz Kuett
* Kevin Manalo
* Matt McCormick
* Arrielle Christine Opotowsky
* Ryan Pavlovsky*
* Mohamad Rabbani
* Eric Relson
* Paul Romano
* Anthony Scopatz
* Patrick Shriwise
* Rachel Slaybaugh
* py1sl
* Paul Wilson
* John Xia
* Julie C. Zachman*
* Marissa Zweig*
