======================
PyNE 0.2 Release Notes
======================

PyNE 0.2 is the second release of Python for Nuclear Engineering project after an 
additional six months effort.  PyNE is a free and open source (BSD licensed) project 
whose goal is to become a necessary package in the computational nuclear engineer's 
toolkit.  It is meant to play nicely with existing, industry standard nuclear 
engineering tools.  PyNE is meant to be both fast and useful.  

Release highlights:

  - Multicomponent enrichment solvers.
  - Simple simulation input file generator.
  - CMake based build system.

Please visit our website for more information: http://pyne.github.com/

New Features
============

Basic Nuclear Data (``pyne.dbgen``)
-----------------------------------------
The ``nuc_data_make`` utility has been expanded to now include EAF cross section 
data from the IAEA [EAF]_ as well PNNL's recent materials compendium [MATCOMP]_.


Nuclear Data (``pyne.data``)
------------------------------------
Natural isotopic abundance ratio information has been exposed via the natural_abund()
function.


Material (``pyne.material``)
-----------------------------------
Materials have been revamped to now include an ``attrs`` namespace which can store
arbitrary metadata.  In light of this, the ``name`` field has been removed as 
names may now be stored via ``mat.attrs['name']``.  Materials now follow the 
convention that all extrinsic variables should be stored in the ``attrs`` while
intrinsic (physical) properties may be stored as class-level fields.  Thus 
``density`` has been added as a class-level field.   A skeletal MultiMaterial class
has also been introduced to handle many materials simultaneously without mixing 
their constituent nuclides.


Simple Simulation Input (``pyne.simplesim``)
------------------------------------------------
The ``simplesim`` package provides modules for the definition of a system (its
geometry and material composition), the definition of simulation parameters,
and for the generation of input files to codes that can perform such
simulations (MCNP, Serpent, MCODE, etc.).


Mulicomponent Enrichment (``pyne.enrichment``)
-----------------------------------------------
The enrichment module contains tools for defining and manipulating enrichment 
cascades. The Cascade class is a simple container for storing parameters which
define and enrichment setup. These include feed, product, and tail materials, 
target enrichments, and separation factors. The main functions in this modules 
computes the total flow rate and separation factors from an initial cascade. 
Other helper function compute relative flow rates and nuclide-specific separation 
factors.  Both a standard numeric solver and a fast symbolic solver have been 
implemented.


Cross Section Interface (``pyne.xs``)
---------------------------------------
The cross section interface has been refactored to include the concept of data 
sources, which expose information and manipulation routines for all valid reactions.
To date null, simple, Cinder, and EAF data sources have been implemented.  The cross
section cache XSCache has been refactored to pull raw data from data source classes.


JsonCpp (``pyne.jsoncpp``)
---------------------------------------
A Cython wrapper around the JsonCpp project, which is automatically included in 
PyNE.  This provides an in-memory, C++ level representation of JSON objects.
This is mainly used as a Python independent C++ dictionary to store arbitrary metadata.
Interoperation in both Python and C++ is very natural.  For more information please
refer to [JSONCPP]_.


GUI Tools (``pyne.gui``)
------------------------------------
The aceviewer tool is now installed as a command line utility, available anywhere
on the system.


Authors
=======
This release contains code written by the following people (in alphabetical 
order).  An (*) indicates a first-time contributor to PyNE.

* Elliott Biondo*
* Christopher Dembia
* Robert Flanagan
* Katy Huff*
* Matt McCormick*
* Eric Relson
* Paul Romano
* Anthony Scopatz
* Paul Wilson
* John Xia*


Additionally, we would like to thank the following people for their 
inspiration, guidance, and testing:

* Seth Johnson
* Ronald J. McConn Jr (for help with PNNL Materials Compendium)
* Joshua Peterson
* Rachel Slaybaugh
* Nick Touran
* Morgan White

References
===================

.. [EAF] A.B. Pashchenko and H. Wienke, "FENDL2/A-MCNP, FENDL2/A-VITJ_E and 
         FENDL2/A-VITJ_FLAT, the processed FENDL-2 neutron activation cross-section 
         data files", report IAEA-NDS-174, International Atomic Energy Agency, 
         March 1997.

.. [MATCOMP] http://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-15870Rev1.pdf

.. [JSONCPP] http://jsoncpp.sourceforge.net/
